28 Jun 1914 Assassination of Franz Ferdinand
Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand assassinated at Sarajevo

23 Jul 1914 July Ultimatum
Austria-Hungary delivered an ultimatum to Serbia, demanding that the Serbians suppress all publications inciting hostility against Austria-Hungary, dissolve Serbian nationalist societies, purge Serbian military and civilian institutions of people deemed suspect by Austria-Hungary, and accept Austro-Hungarian police into Serbia to investigate Archduke Ferdinand’s assassination and suppress subversive movements. The Serbian government was given until 5pm on 25 July to respond.in wikipedia

24 Jul 1914 Serbian reponse to July Ultimatum
The Serbian government accepted all points of the Austro-Hungarian ultimatum of 23 July, except for allowing Austro-Hungarian police to operate in Serbia. In response to Serbian appeals, Russia attempted to mediate but Austria-Hungary refused to compromise on the ultimatum or extend its 48-hour deadline.in wikipedia

28 Jul 1914 Outbreak of World War I
The Austro-Hungarian Empire declared war on the Kingdom of Serbia, in response to Serbia’s rejection of Austria-Hungary’s July Ultimatum. In the following days, Russia, Germany, France, and Britain all entered the conflict, resulting in the First World War.in wikipedia

28 Jul 1914 Russian mobilization
In response to the Austro-Hungarian declaration of war on Serbia, Emperor Nicholas II ordered the mobilization of the Russian Empire against Austria-Hungary. This partial mobilization—it excluded Germany in an attempt to limit the war—was protested by both Russian Foreign Minister Sazonov and the Russian War Minister General Vladimir Sukhomlinov, who believed that partial mobilization was technically impossible and considered Germany’s attitude already belligerent. On 30 July the Emperor relented and ordered a general mobilization.in wikipedia

1 Aug 1914 German declaration of war on Russia
Alerted of Russian mobilization against Germany, Kaiser Wilhelm II ordered German mobilization and declared war on Russia. As per the Schlieffen Plan, Germany immediately prepared for the invasion of Luxembourg and Belgium on the assumption that France would enter the war. Although the British proposed that they would stay neutral if Germany did not attack France, the Kaiser was unable to get his generals to agree to this request as pausing the invasion was technically impossible.in wikipedia

1 Aug 1914 French mobilization
In response to German mobilization and the German declaration of war on Russia, the French government ordered general mobilization.in wikipedia

4 Aug 1914 British entry into World War I
In response to the German invasion of Belgium—whose neutrality was safeguarded by the 1839 Treaty of London—the United Kingdom declared war on Germany, bringing the British Empire into World War I.in wikipedia

4 Aug 1914 German invasion of Belgium
On 2 August 1914, Germany occupied Luxembourg and sent an ultimatum to Belgium, demanding passage through the country. When Belgium refused, Germany declared war on France on 3 August and on Belgium the following day. German troops immediately crossed the border, launching an offensive against the Belgian city of Liège.
7–25 Aug 1914 Battle of the Frontiers▲
Following Germany’s declaration of war, France invaded German-ruled Alsace-Lorraine but was beaten back by 24 August. In the meantime, the Germans pushed through Belgium, defeating the newly arrived British Expeditionary Force at Mons on 23 August.in wikipedia

15–24 Aug 1914 Battle of Cer
Several clashes between Austro-Hungarian and Serbian forces led to battle around Cer Mountain, northwest Serbia. After four days fighting, Austro-Hungarian morale collapsed, with thousands fleeing for the border and many drowning in the Drina River in the panic. The Serbians followed up by recapturing the town of Šabac, bringing an end to the first Austro-Hungarian invasion of Serbia.in wikipedia

23 Aug–11 Sep 1914 Battle of Galicia
Austro-Hungarian forces invaded Russian Poland, advancing on Lublin and Cholm, but were routed by Russian forces at Gnila Lopa on 29-30 August. The Russian counterattack broke through the Austro-Hungarian front, capturing Lemberg in Austrian Galicia.in wikipedia

24 Aug–5 Sep 1914 Great Retreat
After the Germans broke through at Mons, Belgium, the defending British Expeditionary Force and the French Fifth Army were forced into retreat. Despite a counter-offensive attempt at Guise, the Allies were unable to halt the German advance until they reached the Marne, bringing the front to within 60 km of Paris.in wikipedia

26–30 Aug 1914 Battle of Tannenberg
On 17 August 1914, the Russian First and Second Armies crossed the border into East Prussia, Germany. On 26 August, the German Eighth Army under Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg and Major General Erich Ludendorff intercepted the Russian Second Army near Allenstein, making use of railways to quickly consolidate their forces. The result was the rout of the Russians, who lost 78,000 killed and wounded and 92,000 prisoners to German losses of about 15,000.

7–12 Sep 1914 Miracle of the Marne
Allies defeat German advance on Parisin wikipedia

9–14 Sep 1914 Battle of Masurian Lakes
Germans drive back Russian invasionin wikipedia

15 Sep–19 Oct 1914 Race to the Sea
After the German defeat at the Marne, both the Allies and the Germans competed to envelop the northern flank of the opposing army as they fought through Picardy, Artois, and Flanders. The attempts ended when both sides reached the North Sea, ending any possibility of one side outflanking the other.in wikipedia

19 Oct–22 Nov 1914 First Battle of Ypres
At the end of the Race to the Sea, the Allied and German armies clashed at Ypres, Belgium. The Germans began by attacking at Langemarck, meeting continued Allied resistance and counterattacks, until heavy losses and the arrival of winter forced the battle to a halt.in wikipedia

29 Oct 1914 Ottoman entry into World War I
In a surprise attack, Ottoman warships bombarded the Russian ports of Odessa and Sevastopol, initiating war with the Russian Empire and bringing the Ottoman Empire into the Great War on the side of the Central Powers