16 Apr–9 May 1917 Nivelle Offensive
Franco-British forces under the command of Robert Nivelle and Douglas Haig launched the Nivelle offensive in an attempt to break through the German defenses on the Aisne front in northern France. They defeated the Germans at Arras and captured Vimy Ridge, but failed to achieve a strategic victory. The high French casualties involved led to mutinies and the dismissal of Nivelle.in wikipedia

27 Jun 1917 Greeks enter World War I
Following the forced abdication of pro-German King Constantine of Greeece by Prime Minister Venizelos, and his replacement by his son as King Alexander I on 11 June, Greece formally declared war on the Central Powers.in wikipedia

1–19 Jul 1917 Kerensky Offensive
Russian troops attacked the Central Powers in Galicia, Austria-Hungary, quickly advancing on Lemberg (now Lviv). Despite initial successes, Russian morale was low and by 16 July had collapsed completely. On 19 July, the Germans and Austro-Hungarians counterattacked, pushing the Russians back 240 km in only four days.in wikipedia

6 Jul 1917 Battle of Aqaba
After a two month march across the Nefud Desert, some 5000 Arab rebels, led by Auda ibu Tayi and British military advisor T. E. Lawrence (‘Lawrence of Arabia’), attacked the Red Sea port of Aqaba with support from a few British naval vessels. The 300-man Ottoman garrison surrendered after a short struggle.

16–20 Jul 1917 July Days
Soldiers, sailors, and industrial workers rose up in Petrograd, capital of Russia, in a week of spontaneous armed demonstrations against the Russian Provisional Government. Blaming the Bolsheviks for the events, the Provisional Government cracked down on the Bolshevik Party, arresting many of its members and causing the party to disperse. In the wake of this suppression, prominent Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin fled to Finland, while Leon Trotsky was among those arrested.in wikipedia

31 Jul–10 Nov 1917 Battle of Passchendaele
Fifty British and six French divisions launched an attack on the German-occupied ridges south and east of Ypres, Belgium. After a long and bloody campaign in which both sides lost several hundred thousand men, the Allies succeeded in taking Passchendaele—not even 10 km east of original front—in early November.in wikipedia

1–3 Sep 1917 Battle of Jugla
Troops of the Russian 12th Army holding positions along the river Mazā Jugla attempted to halt the advance of the German 8th Army on Riga. After a three-day battle, helped by superior artillery and aviation, the Germans forced the position , capturing Riga as the Russians withdrew to Vidzeme.in wikipedia

9–14 Sep 1917 Kornilov Affair
When Aleksander Kerensky, head of the Russian Provisional Government, requested the support of Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Army, General Lavr Kornilov, against the radical Petrograd army garrison (it was under the control of the Bolshevik-influenced Petrograd Soviet of Soldiers’ and Workers’ Deputies), Kornilov marched on Petrograd. Concerned that Kornilov intended to overthrow his government and establish a military dictatorship, Kerensky provided weapons to the Soviet forces to defeat him. Kornilov’s mutiny soon collapsed as his soldiers deserted him, leading to his arrest and imprisonment. However, his failure left the Bolsheviks armed and empowered.in wikipedia

14 Sep 1917 Russian Republic
On 14 September (1 September Old Style) 1917, with the suppression of Kornilov’s coup attempt, Russian Minister-President Alexander Kerensky and Minister of Justice Alexander Zarudny signed a decree proclaiming the Russian Republic. This act formally ended both the monarchy and the Russian Provisional Government, although the latter continued to operate while the form of the future government was resolved. However, the new republic would last less than two months before being overthrown by the Bolsheviks, who Kerensky had armed to defeat Kornilov.in wikipedia

12–20 Oct 1917 Operation Albion
After its navy cleared mines and subdued coastal batteries, Germany landed troops at the Tagalaht, a bay on Saaremaa in the Russian-ruled Estonian islands, on 12 October 1917. Additional forces landed on the northern island of Hiiumaa two days later. From 16-19 October the German navy defeated the Russian Baltic Fleet in the Battle of Moon Sound, after which the Russians withdrew their remaining land and naval forces from the islands.in wikipedia

24 Oct–19 Nov 1917 Battle of Caporetto
The Austro-Hungarians, supported for the first time by German troops, broke through Italian lines along the northern Isonzo near the town of Kobarid (then in Austria but now in Slovenia and called Caporetto in Italian). The attackers used a combination of new stormtrooper tactics and poison gas to rout the Italians, forcing them to retreat more than 100 km in the direction of Venice. In all, the Italians suffered about 300,000 casualties—of which 250,000 were as prisoners—and lost virtually all their artillery.in wikipedia

7–8 Nov 1917 October Revolution
On 7 November (25 October Old Style) 1917, Bolshevik Red Guards, led by Leon Trotsky, mounted an armed insurrection in Petrograd, capital of the Russian Republic, capturing several government buildings. The following day they seized the Winter Palace, the seat of Alexander Kerensky’s Provisional Government. The Bolsheviks declared a new government, the Council of People’s Commissars, with Vladimir Lenin as its head. Simultaneously and over the following days, other Bolshevik uprisings took place in towns and cities across Russia.

10–12 Nov 1917 Kerensky-Krasnov uprising
Kerensky attempts counter-revolution in Russia but defeatedin wikipedia

11 Nov 1917 Transcaucasian Commissariat
The Transcaucasian Commissariat, headed by Georgian pro-Menshevik Social Democrat Nikolay Chkheidze, is established at Tblisi in response to what it considers the illegal seizure of power by the Bolsheviks in Petrograd. Still considering itself part of the now-defunct Russian Republic, the Commissariat temporarily unites Armenians, Georgians, and Azerbaijanis in one state.in wikipedia

15 Nov 1917 Bolsheviks capture Moscow
Bolsheviks capture Moscowin wikipedia

20 Nov–7 Dec 1917 Battle of Cambrai
The Allies, led by the British, launched an offensive on German lines around Cambrai, France. The first day of the battle saw the first mass tank attack in history, with over 400 British tanks in use. However mechanical failure and German defenses limited the impact of the tanks, and the Allied attack ultimately failed to break through.in wikipedia

20 Nov 1917 Ukrainian People’s Republic
Ukrainian republic proclaimed