21 Mar–18 Jul 1918 German Spring offensive
German Spring offensivein wikipedia

14 Apr 1918 Germans take Helsingfors (Helsinki) from Red Finns
Germans take Helsingfors (Helsinki) from Red Finnsin wikipedia

24 May 1918 Murmansk landing
To prevent German forces in Finland from moving into northern Russia, the British North Russia Squadron landed troops in the strategic year round ice-free port of Murmansk. The intervention met no resistance from the Soviet garrison.in wikipedia

25 May 1918 Revolt of the Czechoslovak Legion
Forces of the Czechoslovak Legion—a volunteer force of Czechs and Slovaks fighting on the Allied side—clashed with the Bolsheviks at several points along the Trans-Siberian Railway after attempts to evacuate the Legion from now-neutral Soviet Russia stalled. By June, the Czechoslovaks had seized much of the railway between Penza and Krasnoyarsk, gaining control of the entire length of the railway by September. The revolt signaled the start of the Russian Civil War, as the Czechoslovaks brought anti-Bolshevik factions to power across Siberia.in wikipedia

3–12 Jun 1918 German Caucasus Expedition
The forces of the German Caucasus Expedition began landing at Poti, Georgia, in agreement with the Georgian government. On June 10, they reached Tiflis and held a joint German-Georgian military parade in the city’s main thoroughfare. Combined German-Georgian garrisons were soon stationed throughout the country.in wikipedia

15–25 Jun 1918 Second Battle of the Piave River
Learning of an imminent Austro-Hungarian attack at 3:00am on 15 June 1918, the Italian artillery opened fire along their entire front at 2:30am. Although many Austrians still broke through across the Italian defensive line along the Piave River, they were expelled within just a few days. The battle proved to be a decisive Italian victory, with the Italians suffering 87,000 casualties to 118,000 Austrians.

4 Aug 1918 Archangel landing
British troops landed in Archangel (Arkhangelsk), northern Russia, with the intention of recovering Allied war materiel (which had been supplied to the Russians while they were still involved in the war) and resurrecting the Eastern Front by linking up with the Czechoslovak Legion and supporting anti-Bolshevik forces. Upon arrival they discovered that the war materiel had already been moved up the Dvina River by the retreating Bolsheviks. Over the following month, the British were joined in Archangel by French and American forces.in wikipedia

8 Aug–11 Nov 1918 Allied Hundred Days Offensive
By July 1918, the German offensive in the West had lost momentum just as the American Expeditionary Force began arriving in France. Seizing initiative, Allied command sought to bring the war out of the trenches by shortening artillery attacks and bringing a continuous, layered attack near the city of Amiens. It was hoped that such offensives could end the war by late 1919, but after 50,000 German personnel surrendered, the Allies decided to press on indefinitely.in wikipedia

15 Sep 1918 Allies break throughin Macedonia
Allies break throughin Macedoniain wikipedia

19–25 Sep 1918 Battle of Megiddo
In the last major Allied offensive of the Sinai and Palestine Campaign, the British Egyptian Expeditionary force under General Edmund Allenby attacked the Ottoman Yildirim Army Group along the Judean coast, in the Judean Hills in front of Nablus, and across the Jordan River towards Amman. The British were supported by Arab rebels, who raided the Ottoman railways and capture Daraa. The Allied victory all but destroyed the Ottoman army in the Levant, leaving the route to Damascus open.

29 Sep 1918 Armistice of Salonica
After requesting a ceasefire on 24 September, the Bulgarian government signs the Armistice of Salonica (a.k.a. Thessalonica) with the Allied Powers, represented by French General Louis Franchet d’Espérey, in Thessaloniki, Greece. The armistice ends Bulgaria’s participation in World War I on the side of the Central Powers effective as of noon on 30 September.in wikipedia

17 Oct 1918 First Czechoslovak Republic
Czech republic proclaimedin wikipedia

17 Oct 1918 Hungarian parliament independent under crown figurehead
Hungarian parliament independent under crown figureheadin wikipedia

24 Oct 1918 Polish Independence Day
Poles at Cracow break with Austria-Hungaryin wikipedia

24 Oct–3 Nov 1918 Battle of Vittorio Veneto
Battle of Vittorio Veneto

28–31 Oct 1918 Aster Revolution
Discontented soldiers and workers in Budapest took to the streets to demonstrate against the war, with aster flower wearing members of the secessionist Hungarian National Council (HNC) seizing public buildings throughout the city on 31 October and forcing the Hungarian Prime Minister to resign. Emperor Charles of Austria(King Charles IV of Hungary) accepted the coup later that day, appointing Count Mihály Károlyi of the HNC as Hungary’s new Prime Minister. This act effectively ended Austrian rule in Hungary, although it was not until 13 November that Charles formally renounced the throne.in wikipedia

29 Oct–9 Nov 1918 German Revolution
In response to the unauthorized 24 October 1918 German naval command directive to engage the Royal Navy in a final battle, sailors mutinied in Wilhelmshaven and Kiel. On 4 November the mutineers took control of Kiel, encouraging seamen, soldiers, and urban workers across the country to also rise in revolt against the imperial order. By 9 November, workers’ and soldiers’ councils had taken power in most of Germany’s cities and a republic was declared.in wikipedia

29 Oct 1918 State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs
The Yugoslav-nationalist National Council proclaimed the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs in Zagreb, capital of the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia in the collapsing Austro-Hungarian Empire. The new state aspired to include all the Austro-Hungarian territories inhabited by Slovenes, Croats, and Serbs, but faced opposition both from the Serb-majority provinces in the east—which wanted to join Serbia—and Italy—which was intent on annexing Dalmatia.in wikipedia

30 Oct 1918 Armistice of Mudros
The Ottoman Minister of Marine Affairs Rauf Bey and the British Admiral Somerset Arthur Gough-Calthorpe signed the Armistice of Mudros aboard the HMS Agamemnon in Mudros harbor on the Greek island of Lemnos. The armistice ended hostilities between the Ottoman Empire and the Allies as of noon the next day (31 October). Its conditions required that the Ottomans demobilize their armed forces and withdraw to Anatolia—including abandoning their gains in the Caucasus—and allow the Allies to occupy the Turkish Straits and any territories in disorder.in wikipedia

1–15 Nov 1918 Banat Republic
The Banat Republic was proclaimed in Timișoara, in the southern part of the Kingdom of Hungary, immediately after Hungary’s secession from the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Recognized only by Hungary, the republic was invaded and occupied by Serbia two weeks later. After a period of Serb-Allied occupation, it was divided between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (Yugoslavia) and Romania in 1919.in wikipedia

3 Nov 1918 Armistice of Villa Giusti
After negotiations starting on 28 October, the collapsing Austro-Hungarian Empire signed an armistice with the Kingdom of Italy in the Villa Giusti, outside of Padua in northern Italy, on 3 November. The cease-fire was intended to start at 3.00 pm on 4 November, but due to a unilateral order of the Austro-Hungarian high command, the empire’s forces stopped fighting almost immediately.